---
layout: post
title: git/gh v0.0.1
date: 2025-11-23 20:00:00
description: some of my latest git learnings
tags: git github
categories: nightly
---

so a few thoughts. 

1. it seems like if this blog is gonna get used then i should prob start writing
   every night about what i learned that day. so this is the first of those posts.

they are not going to be super polished to begin with. quick notes that i will
push. 

i might brush it up later with GPT.

i never really used git much before until i had to. i think most undergrads
usually only write commits when they have to submit code for assignments. or
when they need to share with a colleague. this was pretty much the case for me.
i would push code if i needed to share between remote machines etc.

older folks always said to make smaller commits, name them, pr them, etc but it
doesnt make sense until you are working on large projects.

now i look over probable 150,000 LOC. I will do a full count up later

lately my team has been growing so i am required to use git more seriously.

im getting better at PR... (which is super useful when collaborating with codex)


### S. tier competency
use all the time

`add`, `commit`, `push`, `pull`, `status`

### A. tier competency
use often, sometimes they confuse me but usally I am fine

`log`, `diff`

### B. tier competency
use sometimes, need to look up docs occasionally (eps. when using fancy args)

`fetch`, `merge`, `rebase`

`switch` , `restore` , `checkout` 
`stash`,`reset`,

prefixes...
* `HEAD^^^` `HEAD`, `origin`, `remote`, `upstream`

### C. tier competency
use rarely/never, need to look up docs all the time

`cherry-pick`,  `tag`,  `bisect`, `blame`, `gc`, `fsck`, `revert`

# GH API

### S. tier competency
use all the time

`pr list`, `pr create`, `issue create`,

### A. tier competency
use often, dont know the args off the top of my head 

`pr review`,  `issue list`
`repo clone`, `repo create`, `repo fork`

### B. tier competency
use sometimes, need to look up docs occasionally (eps. when using fancy args)

`actions`, `projects`, `workflows`

### C. tier competency
use rarely/never, need to look up docs all the time

`codespaces`,  `dependabot`,  `discussions`, `milestones`


this is not meant to replace docs so dont expect me to write them here. I will
link pointers if they are relevant/useful to others

mostly sharing my experience and opinions

goodbye
until next time

